Broadcast networks are different
from one-to-one or
peer-to-peer networks like in telephony.
You create content once
at one location and
then many people have access to it for
viewing or listening.
I think of early broadcast networks
also as circuit switch networks,
in the sense if you want to
listen to a different station
you basically tune to
a different broadcast frequency.
So each content shares a specific channel
in which it broadcasts Information.
So in one of the previous lessons,
we saw de Forest's vacuum tube, or triode.
This was one of his most
successful inventions.
And he was mainly interested in radio.
In fact,
he is the self-proclaimed father of radio.
Although he did get an Oscar award for
putting sound on films.
So as we saw before,
he sold the patent rights for the triode,
the vacuum tube, for
$50,000 in 1913 to AT&T or
their proxies to deal
with his legal battles.
That was just for wireline use.
His legal battles were not over.
He had a penchant for lawsuits and
legal battles, and he sold the rights for
the vacuum tube for $190,000 in 1914, and
all rights in 1917 to Western Electric,
the subsidiary of AT&T.
And he went with full force against
another inventor at that time,
Edwin Armstrong.
Armstrong was the inventor
of feedback loop,
which essentially made the amplification
properties of the triode
[COUGH] to act as an oscillator.
And this was used for
heterodyning the main concept
of transmitting information
in the radio broadcast.
De Forest wanted to increase
the value of his patents, and
he really believed that he owned
that particular technology.
So at that time Edwin Armstrong
was a student at Columbia.
And he understood
the operation of triode much
better than De Forest or anybody else.
In fact, he described the operation.
And also came up with the use cases for
heterodyne receiver and
transmitter, which is really what
made the broadcast industry happen.
And he was selling his
rights to Westinghouse and
RCA, and he was making really good money.
The broadcast industry had taken off.
By 1922, RCA had paid Armstrong
a lot of royalties and
starts that he had become a millionaire.
And this was when the legal
battles between De Forest and
Armstrong were really heating up, and
essentially they ruined
both of them financially.
And these were some of
the documents that were
actually used in
the 20-year court battles.
And around this time,
actually around 1913,
when he was beginning his work with radio,
he met another giant in the industry,
David Sarnoff,
who was at that time working
at Marconi Wireless.
Sarnoff and Armstrong had, again,
a very long tumultuous relationship for
a long time.
Sarnoff was interested in
the inventions by Armstrong mainly for
radio applications,
because he figured out how to actually
make De Forest's tube work
much better than De Forest.
He had come to the same
conclusion as AT&T did,
that you did not need a gas in there,
you needed vacuum.
And by reorganizing the amplifier
as a feedback generator,
you could have a radio transmitter and
a receiver.
So both RCA and Sarnoff and
the content and
consumer electronics
industry benefited a lot
from Edwin Armstrong's inventions.
This is a picture of Armstrong and
his wife, Marion MacInnis.
She was actually
David Sarnoff's secretary, and
he married in 1921, and
he built a radio for her.
The courts actually decided
in favor of De Forest for
all the feedback and
heterodyning concepts.
And after that, Edwin Armstrong
went on to invent FM radio.
This was one of his most
brilliant inventions.
So if you had a signal with,
say, a bandwidth of about 5 or
15 kilohertz, and so
that's what you need for audio.
In the AM transmission which is
based on the vacuum tube and
the heterodyning principle,
this is the technique that
RCA was using at the time for all their
radio stations and their receivers.
You need a very small spectrum to
actually send it over the radio.
In simple amplitude modulation,
the bandwidth becomes 2 times
15 kilohertz, 30 kilohertz.
In FM, instead of modulating the carrier,
you actually modulate
the frequency to much higher
value as the frequency increases.
So what this means is there is this
bandwidth expansion that is happening.
So when you modulate a 15 kilohertz
content for transmission in FM radio,
you go up to 75 kilohertz
in commercial effect.
So you end up with about
150 to 200 kilohertz
bandwidth for each radio station.
This was very difficult with the backward
compatibility with AM radio.
There were definitely advantages.
It turns out that by using more bandwidth,
you could get 27 dB of coding gain in FM.
What that means is,
compared to the AM radio,
the noise floor for FM is 500 times lower.
That means you have much
clearer sound quality,
music quality and effect compared to AM.
For Sarnoff, the FM radio was a threat
to the industry that he had built and
deployed.
And of course,
you needed more spectrum for
FM services because you could
not be compatible with AM.
RCA did its best to stop Armstrong
from commercializing FM radio.
Armstrong was back at Columbia,
teaching part-time by this time, and
he was having a lot of legal battles
still with Westinghouse and RCA.
And the battles with De Forest have pretty
much taken away a significant chunk of
his money, so by 1954 he lost
all the wealth that he had made.
He lost all his family wealth.
And one evening he wore his suit,
his jacket,
put on a hat and simply stepped out
of the window and committed suicide.
His wife, Marion MacInnis,
after his death,
was able to establish the ownership
of some of his patents, and
his estate did make some money
off Armstrong's inventions.